The Joe Rogan experience.
Did your family give you a hard time about wanting to do stand up? Yeah.
Do there's quite the story.
There? It's a feel good story. Let me preface with that. So,
uh, yeah. Um, my dad was in finance. He hooked me up with that finance job.
And when I was like, I don't know, I just don't want to do this. He was like,
well, do you have another job? I was like, no,
I'm going to give this standup thing a try. And this was like a year or two in,
obviously I wasn't making any money. Um, so he was very disappointed.
He was hoping it was just a phase. You know,
he doesn't even know what up was old Chinese guy. He just like a talk show.
Like he just keeps calling it a talk show still till today. I talk show,
um, just never got it. So I was finishing my last year of school in San Diego.
I got just random jobs. I worked at a used car lot during the day.
I worked at that comedy palace,
collecting tickets and trade for like stage time, uh, in the evening after that,
I'll go put another shift as a DJ at a strip club,
just so I was like trying different things, you know?
And I didn't want to lock myself into something.
And then eventually the acting started to do a little better, you know? Um, um,
my first job was two broke girls. I had two lines, you know, and I was so proud.
I was so proud of myself. I was finally making some money. I called my dad.
I was like that, you know? Um, why don't you, uh, you know,
watch a CBS tonight, you know, I'm going to be on there and stuff. He was like,
I don't, I don't have CBS. I was like, who does,
who doesn't have CBS. It's a,
you stick a piece of tenfold on the back of your TV.
He gets CBS just really not down. Right.
And then eventually when I got on Silicon valley,
the old man understands what a contract is, a series, regular job on HBO.
He's acting, he got it. So he was finally happy.
I was financially secure. So instead of ever giving it up and say like,
Hey Jimmy, um, good job. I'm proud of you. Maybe I was wrong. Good for you.
You know what he said? He was like, oh, it's so easy. You can do it.
I can probably do it. And he started becoming an actor. I was.
Like, I was like.
Okay, dad, you know what, if you think it's so easy, dude, I was like, dad,
if you think it's so easy, crazy.
I was at with a very small agency at the same time. I'm like, you know what?
I'm going to, you know, sign you up with her.
See if she needs an older Asian guy, because he,
there's not a lot of older Asian guys out there competing.
So she signed him and then I was like, good, good, good.
Now you're going to go through auditions and understand how hard my life is,
how all the rejections I face all the nerves I got to deal with.
But then the plane completely backfire because he went to those auditions and
killed them. He booked like his first six hours. I had a 10 jobs,
which is like an unheard of ratio. You know what I mean? Like,
you'd be lucky to book like 5% of the jobs, but he was killing it a lot.
Like non-union gigs. He even got on this show. Uh, uh, uh,
I talk about this a little bit of my standup. He even taught,
he even got on the show that shot in San Francisco as a Chinese show,
we thought it was no big deal. Low budget.
Chinese show became the biggest show in China.
It became like the modern family of China.
And then my aunt from Shanghai will call the house. Be like Richard,
you're such a good actor. Your son must have taken after you. I was like,
what the.
But now I've accepted it. That's who he is.
I'm happy that me and my dad's in the same business in a way that's crazy.
And it's a fun story to tell people, right?
So I was jokingly saying that story to John Malcovich Ben's forts on, you know,
space force. Everybody gets a kick out of this little story,
episode nine and space force comes around. We're doing a table read. And, uh,
it's a China versus America thing in this episode. And you need,
they needed a couple older Chinese scientists that are authentic Mandarin
speaking, Chinese people after the table, read Greg Daniels, the show runner.
He's like, mm. You know, I just, I don't know. It's always the same guys,
you know, just whatever. And John Malcovich was the one that said, Hey,
what about Jimmy's dad? Have you thought about Jimmy's dad?
And I didn't have thick enough skin to volunteer my dad. And,
and then that night I went home,
I cut together an acting reel for my dad and I sent it to Greg.
All I said was like, Greg, maybe give the old man a chance.
He's got a good look. I think he fits this older scientist in China.
Just let him come in and audition.
But I guess Greg was so impressed with the tape. He just hired him. Wow.
Episode nine of space force. My dad is in it. He he's great.
He comes in no fear. And a scene is toe to toe with John Malcovich.
Wow. And how long has he been acting?
I mean, two years.
It's never taken no classes. That's.
So crazy. Yeah. Wow.
I practice with them, uh, on, on Skype, you know, for that scene, you know?
Cause I was like that don't make me look bad. Don't this up.
Make sure you remember your lines. Right. And then he, he was, um,
he was practicing and he's like, can you screen grab me,
record me so I can see my own performance. You know?
And actors were all very self-conscious I, I hate to watch myself.
So I recorded him. I sent him that, uh, tape, and then he, he looked at it.
He was just like, wow, I'm really good.
Look at me. Like I'm like listening to every this. I was like, sure,
go go for it. But it's that blind sense of confidence.
And also the fact that he never thought to be an actor. So there's no fear.
Yeah. I was nervous as hell my first day with John Malcovich and Steve curl.
My dad came in with just chilling.
That's so funny. It's so funny that it totally backfired.
Yeah. Now it's fine. It's a fun father and son story. And.
It's a great story. It's so funny that he saw you doing it. He's like,
I can do that. You know, he's could do it. He's a talented guy. You.
Know, he, he wants to do standup now. Really?
He was like Jose he's 70 something, 72, 3. Wow.
And he was like, well, Jimmy, you think I can do some stand-up? I was like,
sure. Just go sign up for an open mic at the laugh factory show.
I'll put your name in the hat. How about that? It was like, oh no, no, no, no,
no, no. I'm not doing open mics. Can I do some theater or something?
I was like that, no, he was like, no, I'm not doing for a five people.
I need to do it. If I do it, I need like 500 people. Oh my God. I was like,
that's not how it works, but who knows?
Maybe when he does it in front of 500 people, we can.
What if your dad gets a Netflix special next year?
What if your dad just starts murdering and puts together some whole routine?
You imagine.
How crazy that would be? If your dad's just a murderer.
Just up on stage, crushing punchline, bang, bang, bang. I want.
To say I will be happy for them, but there's probably a part of me. That's like,
no, gosh, he did not.
He's always been the funny one in the family though.
He's always a ball Buster and everything. So it kind of came naturally to him.
Yeah. Wow. There he is. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know.
Vegan find that a space for scene in episode nine. Um,
but completely fearless. Very natural. Has he.
Written standup? Does he have any ideas of stuff he would talk about? You.
Know what?
I should have them right in the set to see what the materials would be.
Yeah. Hm. Hm.
I don't know. I, that I got offended. The acting stuff. Cause I, cause I always,
well, like I snuck into acting, I wasn't trained at Julliard or whatever. Right.
So, uh, that was so it's kinda like a similar path. He's not in the acting.
I snuck in the acting, whatever, but the standup thing kind of offended me.
You know? I'm like, I put in 10 years, dude, you can't just go do a theater.
It does he, I mean,
maybe he can open for me one day or my next special. That'll be fine. No,
it's a lack of respect for the arts or is it, uh, overconfident in his own.
But is it overconfident if he pulled it off.
And so much about acting, is it is confidence, you know, not being shaken,
being yourself. It's I guess.
The correct amount of confidence. It is a correct.
Did he relaxed? I have a video. I got to find on my phone and show you. Um,
so it's in the hallway between setups,
me and Malcovich is running lines and I'm, I'm nervous, you know?
And Malcovich works hard.
Like at his level he still works hard and he's amazing. We're running lights,
you know, in between takes the camera, pans, pans,
a bunch of empty chairs and pants to my dad and an active chair fell asleep,
just dead asleep. So relaxed, chilling.
To work with John Malcovich. That's hilarious. No nerves.
Wow. Yeah. Does he know who John Malcovich is? He does. Absolutely. Wow.
And he's still didn't give a.
No, I think maybe comes with age, you know, when you're 70 something,
you kinda you've seen so much. He is such a fan boy.
Like he loves taking selfies with people. It's very,
at first it started off with just
like a crazy rich Asians or like Patriot day,
this movie that they will Wahlberg, you know, um,
in the premiere I'll take them to the premiere,
my parents and just to kind of finally get their approval, you know?
And he gets it, he gives it up. He was like very emotional.
You don't have to crazy rich Asians and all that. Uh, but his,
his goal is not to celebrate with a son there. His goal is to get selfies
and the after party, you know, those Chinese Groman theater premieres, you know,
at the Chinese theater, there he is right there, mark Walberg and,
and he just keep doing it selfies. And, and like,
I was sitting at a table and then mark has this table and his boys and his
security. And then my dad just leaned over to me and it was like, Hey,
you think, uh, you think we can go get a picture of mark? I was like, well,
I don't, I don't, I don't wanna, I don't want to ask him. Cause I,
I fought so hard to not ask for pictures when people I work with,
I want a picture of mark. I want a picture of Malcovich, but at the same time,
I want to just be a colleague.
I don't want to be a fan of course, but.
Then might that forces me to do that? He's like, come on, just.
Go, just go ask him. I haven't used to that though. He probably just.
Exactly it. Yeah. I asked, I think it's still kind of lame, but if it's like,
Hey mark, my parents are big fans. Can they get a picture?
And it's just cute old Chinese people.
So everybody kind of gets a kick out of him.
He played my dad in Patriots today. Really? He has a very small scene. Um, it's,
uh, that's an interesting, that's how he got his sad card.
That's hilarious. Talk about nepotism and Hollywood. Huh? That's how it works.
Well, but you know what?
I was actively trying to improve that movie because the movie was very serious.
It's about the Boston marathon bombing and I was playing a based on real life,
uh, Chinese person, uh, you know, very, uh,
detailed all stuff. Like he speaks with a Chinese accent,
but it's a Swan Chinese accent when he mixes his L's and, uh,
teas. I forget, I forgot what it was, but I studied it for a long time.
It's not just a generic Chinese accent. Right. And then his parents of course,
uh, speaks,
this is fun dialect or at least just a very proper Mandarin and the actor
they first hired to play my dad. It's just a Skype scene, very simple.
The actor they first hired to play.
My dad spoke Mandarin with a Cantonese accent. So I want it to Pete Burke,
the director. I was like, Pete, man, I, I, I got say something, man.
W the whole point of this movie is honoring these heroes and be authentic.
And this guy, you guys might not be able to tell. I know,
and the Chinese audience will know this guys from Hong Kong or from Guangdong or
something. He's not from Sichuan or mainland China, you know? So it's like,
yeah, sure. We'll, we'll, we'll find another guy. Uh, and I was like, yeah,
I'll sit in with you at some auditions and stuff, if you want. He was like,
yeah, sure. I'm in the, you know,
already shooting in Boston might take a long time. I was like, Pete,
why don't you just hire me that? And that was it.
They hired my dad at that's hilarious. Yeah, no, that's hilarious.
But it's, it's for the art. It's for the authenticity.
Dude. I'm not so secretly hoping your dad kills.
A sticky for you. The best story I.
Want to have you back on after your dad has just murdered a few times on stage.
And you're like, what the? Oh my God.
If he, if he comes on this podcast and he'll be a huge star,
I don't know, am I going to handle that? Cause right now it's very,
very much like I'm hooking him up. I'm still the star, you know,
he's just my dad, but what if I'm starting known as Richard son like,
and acting that will be, that'd be kind of rough.
That's going to be hard. He's going to have to really do something special.
Pull that off. Oh, well, we'll see. We'll see.
Maybe he had his own Hannah Gadsby ask special.
I mean, and just only talk about me in the special.
That would be funny if like you and Tony or whoever,
a bunch of great writers and great comedians start plotting against me for his
success. You know.
Write for him and help him. My God was strategies.
For how to, how to kill. Oh my God. He loves it, man. That's great though.
That's so.
Cool. It's a good father and son bonding. What.
Did your dad used to do for a living? What was his.
Uh, always like a really successful salesman.
He had his own medical device company that he sold.
Salesmen. Yes.
That's a thing where you have to have personality and you have to know how to
read a room.
And like we were talking about alcoholics anonymous is like a good gateway into
comedy. I think maybe salesmen might be too. Yeah. And.
Then when he came to America, he became a financial advisor.
So that's people to people, you got to give presentations.
So he was always a great public speaker. And I think I took after him.
I never really had much stage fright. So that he's a natural. And.
You say bus balls. So he's always joking around.
He's the funny one in the family table. Oh my God. Yeah.
I think he's going to kill, right? Yeah. Yeah.
I hope he does. I really do. Yeah. Well,
you got to hope he does.
Maybe we'll do a two man show for Netflix.
Or the odds of him being better than you are. Very slim. Let's just be honest,
but don't you just want him to do well.
I do. I really do. I think it's really, I joke about the jealousy.
I really don't care. He's an old man. Let him live his bucket list.
Act with John Malcovich. You know what I mean?
Like I'm just being a good son trying to hook my dad up now.
Oh man. I can't wait to see how this plays out. When is he going to do stand up?
Do you have a timeline?
Was he going to try it when the clubs get back open again?
Well, I think once I told him he can't just do theaters,
he kind of became disinterested.
He doesn't want to do open mics, but you got to.
Or maybe doesn't got to, I mean, it depends on how,
how much of a perspective he has if he has like real takes on things that
he could just go on stage with. Yeah. You never know, man, but.
Here's the,
if he goes on stage without the context of this is Jimmy's dad and
he just an old man doing a set. I don't know that's a long road,
but if I bring him up and he's my dad,
I think people would just kind of eat it up. Give him a little more slack.
Maybe, but that might help you accept the fact that he kills.
What if he goes on stage without any recognition of you whatsoever.
Just someone introduces him. He goes on stage and just murders.
That'd be hard to take. That would be hard. Yeah.
Because if you bring him up and you give him a little training wheels and you
push them, you give them a little boost and he'd go.
It's like exactly what I was saying.
How you can't immediately be good and stand up. You need to put in that five,
10 years. But if he's just good.
Yeah. I would question myself like I would be like, well, I must be, please.
Tell me when he's going to do it, please. Okay.
We're going to tell me when he's going to do it and I want to go, go watch dog.
And
[inaudible].